LIMA: Less Is More for Alignment
---
- [Zotero Select Link](zotero://select/groups/2480461/items/8HSRSDKE)
- [Zotero URI](https://www.zotero.org/groups/2480461/items/8HSRSDKE)
- Authors: [[First Author]] [[Important Author]] [[Last Author]] 
- Topics: [[Chunting Zhou]] [[Pengfei Liu]] [[Omer Levy]]
- Venue: #arxiv
- Year: #2023

---
### Major Contributions
- [[LIMA]] demonstrates remarkably strong performance, learning to follow specific response formats from only a handful of examples in the training data, including complex queries that range from planning trip itineraries to speculating about alternate history
	- Large language models are trained in two stages: (1) unsupervised pretraining from raw text, to learn general-purpose representations, and (2) large scale instruction tuning and reinforcement learning, to better align to end tasks and user preferences. We measure the relative importance of these two stages by training LIMA, a 65B parameter [[LLaMa]] language model fine-tuned with the standard supervised loss on only 1,000 carefully curated prompts and responses, without any reinforcement learning or human preference modeling.
---
### Secondary Contribution
- results strongly suggest that almost all knowledge in large language models is learned during pretraining, and only limited instruction tuning data is necessary to teach models to produce high quality output
- We investigate the effects of training data diversity, quality, and quantity through ablation experiments. We observe that, for the purpose of alignment, scaling up input diversity and output quality have measurable positive effects, while scaling up quantity alone might not.
---
### Limitations/Future Work
- We show that fine-tuning a strong pretrained language model on 1,000 carefully curated examples can produce remarkable, competitive results on a wide range of prompts. However, there are limitations to this approach. Primarily, the mental effort in constructing such examples is significant and difficult to scale up. Secondly, LIMA is not as robust as product-grade models; while LIMA typically generates good responses, an unlucky sample during decoding or an adversarial prompt can often lead to a weak response. That said, the evidence presented in this work demonstrates the potential of tackling the complex issues of alignment with a simple approach.
---
### Notes (Try to use backlinks)
- we demonstrate that, given a strong pretrained language model, remarkably strong performance can be achieved by simply fine-tuning on 1,000 carefully curated training examples.
- we find that LIMA outperforms RLHF-trained DaVinci003 from OpenAI, which was trained with RLHF, as well as a 65B-parameter reproduction of Alpaca [Taori et al., 2023], which was trained on 52,000 examples.
- Ablation experiments reveal vastly diminishing returns when scaling up data quantity without also scaling up prompt diversity, alongside major gains when optimizing data quality.
- despite having zero dialogue examples, we find that LIMA can conduct coherent multi-turn dialogue, and that this ability can be dramatically improved by adding only 30 hand-crafted dialogue chains to the training set.
- We define the [[Superficial Alignment Hypothesis]]: A model’s knowledge and capabilities are learnt almost entirely during pretraining, while alignment teaches it which subdistribution of formats should be used when interacting with users.
- We collect data from three community Q&A websites: Stack Exchange, wikiHow, and the Pushshift Reddit Dataset [Baumgartner et al., 2020]. 
- In addition to our manually authored examples, we sample 50 training examples from Super-Natural Instructions [Wang et al., 2022b] ([[_2022_NaturalInstructions]]). Specifically, **we select 50 natural language generation tasks such as summarization, paraphrasing, and style transfer**, and pick a single random example from each one.
- We train [[LIMA]] (Less Is More for Alignment) using the following protocol. Starting from LLaMa 65B [Touvron et al., 2023], we fine-tune on our 1,000-example alignment training set. To differentiate between each speaker (user and assistant), we introduce a special end-of-turn token (EOT) at the end of each utterance; this token plays the same role as EOS of halting generation, but avoids conflation with any other meaning that the pretrained model may have imbued into the preexisting EOS token
---
